---
layout: post
title: "JSON Woes vs Documentation"
date: 2016-04-14
---

I recently dove face first into a project I've toyed with on and off - but haven't touched in a little while - and remembered
one of the issues I put it aside for. Without going into too much detail, here's a brief explanation:

A certain online game pits teams of players against each other in a battle-royale to take control of objectives on a map. 
The outcomes of player actions are recorded in each match, and accessible through a data-rich API provided by the game publisher. 
My goal is to use these data, provided in JSON format, to analyze decision-making by players in high-impact positions early in
the game. In doing so I hope to determine if there are any patterns that predict the game's momentum and eventual outcome.  
A later goal is to use this analysis to enable players to compare their recent games with ideal behaviors and receive feedback.

My problem, until recently, lay in how to best analyze the JSON. I'm fairly new with the data format and I was having 
difficulty in devising a straightforward means to parse the data, at first with Perl. Since moving to JS, I had similar
difficulty - at first. 

{% highlight javascript %}
def show
  function results(APIresults) {
    match_results = JSON.stringify(APIresults);
    };
end
{% endhighlight %}

The issue is right above - stringification. In order to visually analyze the JSON results, I stringified them. I then tried, 
with little success, to start pulling relevant data from the stringified data. Until I read the JSON documentation again, 
I had no idea how roundabout my methods were.

I like to learn at least one thing each day, whether a new fact or simply refreshing something old. Today lesson is - if something
is funky, go read the damn documentation.
